[No QA] Change guidelines to forbid defaulting values (#52094)
Expensify/App: contributingGuides/STYLE.md

### Default value for inexistent IDs

> Use `CONST.DEFAULT_NUMBER_ID` when there is a possibility that the number ID property of an Onyx value could be `null` or `undefined`. **Do not default string IDs to any value unless absolutely necessary**, in case it's necessary use `CONST.DEFAULT_STRING_ID` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `CONST.DEFAULT_NUMBER_ID` when there is a possibility that and ID that's a number could be `null` or `undefined`. 

Use `CONST.DEFAULT_STRING_ID` when there is a possibility that and ID that's a string could be `null` or `undefined`. 

**Do not default IDs to any value unless absolutely necessary**
```

Reviewer 2: I'm confused by that suggestion.

Can we please include some examples for why we have these guidelines and our reasoning for them? I think explaining the why will help people follow the suggestions.

Reviewer: > unless absolutely necessary

Please also give an example of when this is necessary

Author: @neil-marcellini I've added some explanations as requested, please let me know if it's good enough

> Please also explain and give an example of when this is necessary

@iwiznia Unfortunately I couldn't think of any examples default the string ID would be necessary. We just added because, given the codebase's size, it *could* happen so we are already covering this situation in the guidelines. If you think this is not valid we can instead remove this exception and `DEFAULT_STRING_ID` for now.

Reviewer 2: > Didn't we say in the thread you linked that we needed to default to `undefined` or `0` when connecting to an onyx key?

That's true, but that would be not providing a default, or using a number right?

It's sounding like we really can't come up with a good case for defaulting a string. I think it would be more clear to leave that out entirely. We could add a note that if you find a reasonable exception or are confused about a case to raise your question in #expensify-open-source.

Author: I removed `DEFAULT_STRING_ID` and added the note.

``` ts
// BAD
const accountID = report?.ownerAccountID ?? -1;
const accountID = report?.ownerAccountID ?? 0;
const reportID = report?.reportID ?? '-1';

// BAD
report ? report.ownerAccountID : -1;

// GOOD
const accountID = report?.ownerAccountID ?? CONST.DEFAULT_NUMBER_ID;

> const accountID = report?.ownerAccountID ?? CONST.DEFAULT_NUMBER_ID;

Reviewer: This is duplicated
```suggestion
```

> const reportID = report?.reportID;

Reviewer: Not sure I get why this is good and not defaulting to `CONST.DEFAULT_NUMBER_ID`

Author: `report?.reportID` is a string ID, so we shouldn't default it unless really necessary.

Reviewer: Ah always forget that because they are ints in the DB

Reviewer: To avoid confusion, can we make the examples for strings be `policyIDs` please?

Author: adjusted

> // GOOD

Reviewer: Remove this please since the above ones are also good

Author: Oh I put this as a "solution" to the BAD example here

```
// BAD
report ? report.ownerAccountID : -1;
```

Should I remove it too?

Author: adjusted

report ? report.ownerAccountID : CONST.DEFAULT_NUMBER_ID;
```

> Here are some common cases you may face when fixing your code to remove the default values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some common cases you may face when fixing your code to remove old/bad the default values.
```

Reviewer 2: I think you mean this:
```
Here are some common cases you may face when fixing your code to remove the old/bad default values.
```

#### **Case 1**: Argument of type 'string | undefined' is not assignable to parameter of type 'string'.

```diff

> -Report.getNewerActions(newestActionCurrentReport?.reportID ?? '-1', newestActionCurrentReport?.reportActionID ?? '-1');

Reviewer: I don't get this... this would not cause any error since it is defaulting to string 😕 

I also don't get the next line since that one is not adding the `CONST.DEFAULT_NUMBER_ID`

Reviewer 2: The new code isn't providing a default, so that causes a type error because it always expects a string, not possibly undefined.

Author: Yes, and we decided to not default string IDs so that's why I removed the default values

+Report.getNewerActions(newestActionCurrentReport?.reportID, newestActionCurrentReport?.reportActionID);
```

> error TS2345: Argument of type 'string | undefined' is not assignable to parameter of type 'string'. Type 'undefined' is not assignable to type 'string'.

> We need to change `Report.getNewerActions()` arguments to allow `undefined`. By doing that we could add a condition that return early if one of the parameters are falsy, preventing the code (which is expecting defined IDs) from executing.

Reviewer: Do we? I thought we would pass `CONST.DEFAULT_NUMBER_ID` and thus not allow undefined? (the rest of the code change looks good)

Reviewer 2: This is a string, our guidelines are to allow these to be undefined which is falsey and prevents us from accidentally accessing Onyx values.

```diff
-function getNewerActions(reportID: string, reportActionID: string) {
+function getNewerActions(reportID: string | undefined, reportActionID: string | undefined) {
+    if (!reportID || !reportActionID) {
+        return;
+    }
```

#### **Case 2**: Type 'undefined' cannot be used as an index type.

```diff
function MoneyRequestView({report, shouldShowAnimatedBackground, readonly = false, updatedTransaction, isFromReviewDuplicates = false}: MoneyRequestViewProps) {
-    const parentReportAction = parentReportActions?.[report?.parentReportActionID ?? '-1'];

> +    const parentReportAction = parentReportActions?.[report?.parentReportActionID];

Reviewer: Same as above, why would the first line cause an error if it has a value and why would the second one won't when it would use undefined? 😕

Author: The first line is not causing errors. The error happen in the second line when I remove the default value, because TS says I can't use undefined as an index type.

```

> error TS2538: Type 'undefined' cannot be used as an index type.

> This error is inside a component, so we can't just make conditions with early returns here. We can instead use `String(report?.parentReportActionID)` to try to convert the value to `string`. If the value is `undefined` the result string will be `'undefined'`, which will be used to find a record inside `parentReportActions` and, same as `-1`, would find nothing.

Reviewer: I don't get why we are suggesting this. Why not default to `""`? We never want `"undefined"` to be used

> This error is inside a component, so we can't just make conditions with early returns here. We can instead use `String(report?.parentReportActionID)` to try to convert the value to `string`. If the value is `undefined` the result string will be `'undefined'`, which will be used to find a record inside `parentReportActions` and, same as `-1`, would find nothing.

Author: We are suggesting to remove the default value because `parentReportActionID` is a `string` and according to the [final proposal](https://github.com/Expensify/App/issues/50360#issuecomment-2432767978) we agreed to **not** default string IDs to any value, unless absolutely necessary.

> Update guidelines to require developers to default all number IDs to 0 and forbid defaulting string IDs unless absolutely necessary. Include examples about how to deal with common scenarios when removing the default values.

When using `String(report?.parentReportActionID)`, we will have `'undefined'` if `report?.parentReportActionID` is `undefined`, so we will try to access the `'undefined'` record of `parentReportActions`. Same as `'-1'` or even `''`, this record should never exist so it's safe to do it. 

However, I can change the diff example to make it clear that I was talking about Onyx usage, wdyt?

```diff
function MoneyRequestView({report, shouldShowAnimatedBackground, readonly = false, updatedTransaction, isFromReviewDuplicates = false}: MoneyRequestViewProps) {
    const [parentReportActions] = useOnyx(`${ONYXKEYS.COLLECTION.REPORT_ACTIONS}${parentReportID}`);
-   const parentReportAction = parentReportActions?.[report?.parentReportActionID ?? '-1'];
+   const parentReportAction = parentReportActions?.[report?.parentReportActionID];
```

```diff
function MoneyRequestView({report, shouldShowAnimatedBackground, readonly = false, updatedTransaction, isFromReviewDuplicates = false}: MoneyRequestViewProps) {
    const [parentReportActions] = useOnyx(`${ONYXKEYS.COLLECTION.REPORT_ACTIONS}${parentReportID}`, {
        canEvict: false,
    });
-   const parentReportAction = parentReportActions?.[report?.parentReportActionID ?? '-1'];
+   const parentReportAction = parentReportActions?.[report?.parentReportActionID];
```

> error TS2538: Type 'undefined' cannot be used as an index type.

This error is inside a component, so we can't simply use early return conditions here. Instead, we can use `String(report?.parentReportActionID)` to try to convert the value to `string`. If the value is `undefined`, the result string will be `'undefined'`, which will be used to find a record inside `parentReportActions` and, just like `-1`, would find nothing.

```diff
function MoneyRequestView({report, shouldShowAnimatedBackground, readonly = false, updatedTransaction, isFromReviewDuplicates = false}: MoneyRequestViewProps) {
-    const parentReportAction = parentReportActions?.[report?.parentReportActionID ?? '-1'];

> +    const parentReportAction = parentReportActions?.[String(report?.parentReportActionID)];

Author: Agree that it's more aligned with the codebase, adjusted but used `undefined` instead of `null` to align more with Onyx data structure (Onyx doesn't return `null` values)

> +    const parentReportAction = parentReportActions?.[String(report?.parentReportActionID)];

Reviewer: In this case it's not an index of onyx, so no need to use `undefined` IMO. But NAB I think, what do you think @neil-marcellini

> +    const parentReportAction = parentReportActions?.[String(report?.parentReportActionID)];

Reviewer 2: Yes NAB, I'm fine with `undefined`.
